revise README.md (#665)
CDCgov/multisignal-epi-inference: README.md

# PyRenew: A Package for Bayesian Renewal Modeling with JAX and NumPyro.

The PyRenew package is a flexible tool for simulation and statistical inference of epidemiological models, emphasizing hierarchical multi-signal renewal models.
Inspired by the R package [EpiNow2](https://epiforecasts.io/EpiNow2/),
it provides  a Python API built on top of [numpyro](https://num.pyro.ai/) and [JAX](https://docs.jax.dev/en/latest/index.html).

A renewal model estimates new infections from recent past infections using a generation interval (the time between successive infections in a transmission chain).

> From this, it infers $R_t$, the time-varying reproduction number, which indicates whether transmission is increasing or decreasing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From this, it infers $R_t$, the time-varying reproduction number, which indicates whether infection prevalence is increasing or decreasing.
```

The core renewal equation is:

$$I(t) = R_t \sum_{s} I(t-s) \, w(s)$$

where $w(s)$ is the generation interval distribution: the probability that $s$ time units separate infection in an index case and a secondary case.

Inference is complicated by the fact that observational data require their own models ([Bhatt et al., 2023, §2](https://doi.org/10.1093/jrsssa/qnad030)).

> The observation equation links infections to expected observations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A common observation equation links infections to expected observations:
```

$$\mu(t) = \alpha \sum_{s} I(t-s) \, \pi(s)$$

where $\alpha$ is the ascertainment rate and $\pi(s)$ is the delay distribution from infection to observation.

PyRenew provides composable building blocks for these components via its `RandomVariable` abstraction - each element exposes a `sample()` method, allowing complex hierarchical models to be composed from modular, interchangeable building blocks.
These methods internally call NumPyro's `numpyro.sample()` primitive to register named random variables with the inference engine, which automatically handles posterior sampling via MCMC or variational inference.

> ```

Reviewer: This was breaking the subsequent fencing.
```suggestion
```

# PyRenew: A Package for Bayesian Renewal Modeling with JAX and NumPyro.

The PyRenew package is a flexible tool for simulation and statistical inference of epidemiological models, emphasizing hierarchical multi-signal renewal models.
Built on top of the [numpyro](https://num.pyro.ai/) Python library, `pyrenew` provides core components for model building.

A renewal model estimates new infections from recent past infections using a generation interval (the time between successive infections in a transmission chain).

> From this, it infers $R_t$, the time-varying reproduction number, which indicates whether transmission is increasing or decreasing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From this, it infers $R_t$, the time-varying reproduction number, which indicates whether the number of infectious individuals is increasing or decreasing.
```

The observation equation links infections to expected observations:

$$\mu(t) = \alpha \sum_{s} I(t-s) \, \pi(s)$$

where $\alpha$ is the ascertainment rate and $\pi(s)$ is the delay distribution from infection to observation.

The Pyrenew package provides configurable classes which encapsulate these components and methods to orchestrate the configuration and composition of these processes
resulting in programs which clearly express the model structure and choices, allowing for both ease of model specification and dissemination.
The fundamental building blocks are the `Model` metaclass, from which we can draw samples,
and the `RandomVariable` metaclass which has been abstracted to allow for sampling from distributions, computing a mechanistic equation, or simply returning a fixed value.
The `PyrenewBuilder` class

PyRenew's strength lies in multi-signal integration for information pooling across diverse data streams
such as hospital admissions, wastewater concentrations, and emergency department visits
where each signal has distinct observation delays, noise characteristics, and spatial resolutions.

> For single-signal renewal models, we recommend the excellent R package [EpiNow2](https://epiforecasts.io/EpiNow2/);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For single-signal renewal models, we recommend the excellent R package [EpiNow2](https://epiforecasts.io/EpiNow2/).
```
